Preparing
=========

Finding your story
------------------

Choose between these two approaches: pick a “thesis” that seems easiest
to defend, or spend time brainstorming about how your personality and
experiences tie together into a purpose or goal. (Sometimes free
brainstorming is what you need, but other times it’s helpful to limit
your choices.)

Ask yourself, “what is important to me?” IT DOES NOT MATTER if your
answer sounds glamorous or stupid, ambitious or small, random or
focused. JUST ANSWER IT. Be factual and objective; NO VALUE JUDGEMENTS.

Write your answer here:

Expand this dropdown for some brainstorming help.

Narrow down this question by picking a few axes to answer along. Like
this: “Which people are important to me?”, or “What values are important
to me?” or “ “What \[x\] are important to me…”, where x = \[“school
subjects”, “”, “”, “”\]

Simplifying your technical portfolio
------------------------------------

Ok this might feel like the easy part \*phew!\*

Go through every class, program, and club you’ve ever done up until now,
and list the projects from them in an excel sheet. It’s okay if you
forget a few, just write what you remember.

Now start sorting and organizing. Label the technologies used, or the
skills learned, or whatever thematic groupings you can think of.

Now start SELECTing. (That’s a database pun ha. ha. ha. Bye) Pick your
strongest or most representative projects. Ideally, they’ll each be as
dissimilar from each other as possible, so when you talk about each one,
you cover the maximum number of bullet points in minimal time.

Tying the portfolio and the story together
------------------------------------------

You may find that in this section, you minorly or heavily alter your
curated portfolio from the previous section. That is okay.

Talk the talk:

Practice with your bathroom mirror, random strangers, or your friends or
professors. Give them the short, one-sides elevator pitch, and/or give
them the long, conversational version where they get to pepper you with
unexpected questions.

Walk the talk:

Go out and interview! Apply EVERYWHERE. Schedule your interviews!

Practicing the interview
------------------------

### Technical

This is a balancing act. You want to maximize the info you get from your
interviewer, minimize the time it takes for you to find a solution. You
want to maximize your engagement and minimize your stress.

### Non-technical

Remember, it’s all a conversation. Conversations involve many different
parts; most obviously, they involve questions, they involve answers.
However, those two parts alone do not make a conversation; they make an
interview, and that puts the power entirely on one side. To make a
conversation, add flavor: insert a factual observation before an answer,
to buy you time to find the answer you want to give.

It is your job to make it a conversation, but your interviewer will
likely help you, because they are actually on your side, and they're
rooting for you by default.

You will be asked:

“What is your most significant accomplishment?”

“Why are you a good fit for this company?” / “Why do you want to work
for this company?”

“What is one technology you love?” / “tell me about a
technology/app/service/software that has changed your life or the lives
of others”

“What do you do outside of school?”

“What are your strengths? What are your flaws?“

Interviewing
============

Some tips:
